Adds maps documentation (#2376)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/maps.md

---
layout: default
title: Maps
nav_order: 15
---

# Maps

> With OpenSearch Dashboards, you can create maps to visualize your geographical data. OpenSearch lets you construct map visualizations with multiple layers, combining data across different indexes. You can build each layer from a different data source either directly or using simple or ML-powered aggregations. Additionally, you can configure maps to show specific data at different zoom levels. OpenSearch maps are powered by the OpenSearch maps service, which uses vector tiles to render maps. 

Author: @VijayanB The feature review doc had "ML-enabled aggregations". Is that a better term? Or is it not applicable altogether?

> With OpenSearch Dashboards, you can create maps to visualize your geographical data. OpenSearch lets you construct map visualizations with multiple layers, combining data across different indexes. You can build each layer from a different data source either directly or using simple or ML-powered aggregations. Additionally, you can configure maps to show specific data at different zoom levels. OpenSearch maps are powered by the OpenSearch maps service, which uses vector tiles to render maps. 

Author: Removed.

## Getting started

To get started, perform the following steps:

> 1. On the top menu bar, go to **OpenSearch Dashboards > Maps**.

Reviewer: It now changed the place to under Plugins. https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-maps/pull/196

1. Select the **Create map** button. You can now see the default OpenSearch basemap.
1. To examine the **Default map** layer configuration, in the **Layers** panel on the upper left of the map, select **Default map**.
![Default map]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/maps-default.png)

To hide the **Layers** panel, select the collapse (arrow) icon in the panel's upper-right corner.
{: .tip}

## Layer settings

To change the default map settings, select **Default map** in the **Layers** panel. Under **Layer settings**, you can change the layer name and description and configure zoom levels and opacity for your layer:

> - **Zoom levels**: If you want to make a layer visible only on a certain range of zoom levels, you can specify the zoom levels for this layer either by entering them in the text boxes or by sliding the range slider to the desired values.

Reviewer 2: Shall we call out like, by default layer is visible in all zoom levels, you can update this range if you want otherwise.

- **Opacity**: If your map contains multiple layers, one layer can obscure another one. In this case, you may want to reduce the opacity of the top layer so you can see both layers at the same time.

## Adding layers

To add a layer to the map, in the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/add-layer.png" alt="Add layer">

You can add either **data layers** or **reference layers** to the map:
- **Data layers** let you visualize data from various data sources. 

> - **Reference layers** serve as basemaps. To use your own or a third-party map as a basemap, [add it as a **Custom map**](#adding-a-custom-map).

Reviewer 2: We renamed it to "Base layer"

## Adding a custom map

OpenSearch supports Web Map Service (WMS) or Tile Map Service (TMS) custom maps. To add a TMS custom map, perform the following steps:

1. In the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.
1. From the **Add layer** dialog, select **Reference layer > Custom map**.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/custom-map.png" alt="Add custom map">

1. In the **Custom type** dropdown, select **Tile Map Service (TMS)**. 
1. Enter the TMS URL.

> 1. (Optional) In **TMS attribution**, enter a TMS attribution for the basemap. For example, if you're using Maptiler, enter `Maptiler`. The name `Maptiler` will be displayed in the lower-right corner of the map.

Reviewer 2: We don't have to give Maptiler as an example, we can use something else "custom-map"

1. Select the **Settings** tab to edit the layer settings.
1. Enter the layer name in **Name**.
1. (Optional) Enter layer description in **Description**.
1. (Optional) select the zoom levels and opacity for this layer.
1. Select the **Update** button.

## Adding a document layer

> Adding document layers lets you visualize your data. You can use a single index or multiple indexes as a data source for a visualization. 

Reviewer 2: We support one index pattern per document layer. Users can create multiple layers if they want to view multiple index pattern. I am not sure whether "You can use a single index or multiple indexes as a data source for a visualization." means same.

> OpenSearch supports displaying documents that contain both geopoint and geoshape fields on a map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch supports displaying documents that contain both geo_point and geo_shape fields on a map.
```

Author: Reworded.

{: .note}

> The following example assumes that you have the `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights` dataset installed. 

Reviewer 2: if not, do we have a link on how to install this sample dataset?

Add a document layer as follows:

1. In the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.
1. From the **Add layer** dialog, select **Data layer > Documents**.

> 1. In **Data source**, select `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights`. Alternatively, you can enter another index name or index pattern to visualize.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In **Data source**, select `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights`. Alternatively, you can enter another index pattern to visualize.
```

> 1. In **Geospatial field**, select a data field to be displayed in the visualization. In this example, select `DestLocation`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In **Geospatial field**, select a geospatial field (geo_point or geo_shape) to be displayed in the visualization. In this example, select `DestLocation`.
```

1. Select the **Settings** tab to edit layer settings.
1. Enter `Flight destination` in **Name**.
1. Select the **Update** button.
1. To see more data, in the upper-right corner select the calendar icon dropdown, then under **Quick select** choose **Last 15 days**. 

You should see the flight destination data similar to the following image:

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/new-layer.png" alt="Flight destination map">

## Filtering data

To show a subset of the data in the index, filter the data. The following example filters the Flight destination data to see only United States destinations:

1. In the **Layers** panel, select **Flight destination**.
1. Select **Filters**.
1. Select **Add filter**.
1. In **Edit filter**, select **DestCountry** in **Field**.
1. In **Operator**, select **is**.
1. In **Value**, select **US**.
1. Select the **Save** button.
1. Select the **Update** button.

For large datasets, you may want to avoid loading data for the whole map. To load data only for the part of the map that is currently visible, select the **Only request data around map extent** checkbox.
{: .tip}

## Using tooltips to visualize additional data

> The map layers show geopoint and geoshape document fields as locations on the map. To add more information to the locations, you can use tooltips. For example, you may want to to show flight delay, destination weather, and destination country in the Flight destination layer. Perform the following steps to configure tooltips to show additional data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Document layer show geo_point and geo_shape document fields as locations on the map. To add more information to the locations, you can use tooltips. For example, you may want to to show flight delay, destination weather, and destination country in the Flight destination layer. Perform the following steps to configure tooltips to show additional data:
```

---
layout: default
title: Maps
nav_order: 15
---

# Maps

> With OpenSearch Dashboards, you can create maps to visualize your geographical data. OpenSearch lets you construct map visualizations with multiple layers, combining data across different indexes. You can build each layer from a different index pattern. Additionally, you can configure maps to show specific data at different zoom levels. OpenSearch maps are powered by the OpenSearch maps service, which uses vector tiles to render maps. 

Author: Yes, I think we don't need it here. Whatever it is, it's the maximum, and we're describing the range.

## Getting started

To get started, perform the following steps:

> 1. On the top menu bar, go to **OpenSearch Plugins > Maps**.

Author: I don't think so because then we'd have to add it to every page, and I think they can learn how to connect in the overview.

1. Select the **Create map** button. You can now see the default OpenSearch basemap.
1. To examine the **Default map** layer configuration, in the **Layers** panel on the upper left of the map, select **Default map**.
![Default map]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/maps-default.png)

To hide the **Layers** panel, select the collapse (arrow) icon in the panel's upper-right corner.
{: .tip}

## Layer settings

To change the default map settings, select **Default map** in the **Layers** panel. Under **Layer settings**, you can change the layer name and description and configure zoom levels and opacity for your layer:

> - **Zoom levels**: By default, a layer is visible at all zoom levels. If you want to make a layer visible only on a certain range of zoom levels, you can specify the zoom levels either by entering them in the text boxes or by sliding the range slider to the desired values.

Reviewer 3: "only for a certain range"?

- **Opacity**: If your map contains multiple layers, one layer can obscure another one. In this case, you may want to reduce the opacity of the top layer so you can see both layers at the same time.

## Adding layers

To add a layer to the map, in the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/add-layer.png" alt="Add layer">

You can add **base layers** or **data layers**to the map:

- A **base layer** serves as a basemap. To use your own or a third-party map as a base layer, [add it as a **Custom map**](#adding-a-custom-map).

- **Data layers** let you visualize data from various data sources. 

## Adding a custom map

OpenSearch supports Web Map Service (WMS) or Tile Map Service (TMS) custom maps. To add a TMS custom map, perform the following steps:

1. In the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.
1. From the **Add layer** dialog, select **Reference layer > Custom map**.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/custom-map.png" alt="Add custom map">

1. In the **Custom type** dropdown list, select **Tile Map Service (TMS)**. 
1. Enter the TMS URL.

> 1. (Optional) In **TMS attribution**, enter a TMS attribution for the basemap. For example, if you're using a custom basemap, you can add its name to display in the lower-right corner of the map.

Reviewer 3: A word should follow "display". "display it"?

Author: Reworded

1. Select the **Settings** tab to edit the layer settings.
1. Enter the layer name in **Name**.

> 1. (Optional) Enter layer description in **Description**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Enter the layer description in **Description**.
```

1. (Optional) select the zoom levels and opacity for this layer.
1. Select the **Update** button.

## Adding a document layer

Adding document layers lets you visualize your data. You can use a single index or multiple indexes as a data source for a visualization. 

OpenSearch supports displaying documents that contain both geopoint and geoshape fields on a map.
{: .note}

The following example assumes that you have the `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights` dataset installed. If you don't have this dataset installed, perform the following steps:

1. On the top menu bar, go to **OpenSearch Dashboards > Overview**.
1. Select the **View app directory** link. 
1. Select **Add sample data**.
1. In the **Sample flight data** panel, select the **Add data** button .

Add a document layer as follows:

1. In the **Layers** panel, select the **Add layer** button.
1. From the **Add layer** dialog, select **Data layer > Documents**.
1. In **Data source**, select `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights`. Alternatively, you can enter another index pattern to visualize.

> 1. In **Geospatial field**, select a geospatial field (geopoint or geoshape) to be displayed in the visualization. In this example, select `DestLocation`.

Author: I'll discuss with @natebower whether to use underscores in the field names.

1. (Optional) Select the **Style** tab to change the fill color, border color, border thickness, or marker size.
1. Select the **Settings** tab to edit layer settings.
1. Enter `Flight destination` in **Name**.
1. Select the **Update** button.

> 1. To see more data, in the upper-right corner select the calendar icon dropdown list, then under **Quick select** choose **Last 15 days**. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To see more data, in the upper-right corner, select the calendar icon dropdown list. Then under **Quick select**, choose **Last 15 days**. 
```

> You should see the flight destination data similar to the following image:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should see the flight destination data, as in the following image.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/new-layer.png" alt="Flight destination map">

## Filtering data

> To show a subset of the data in the index, filter the data. The following example filters the flight destination data to see only United States destinations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To show a subset of the data in the index, filter the data. The following example filters the flight destination data to display only United States destinations:
```

> To show a subset of the data in the index, filter the data. The following example filters the Flight destination data to see only United States destinations:

Author: I think lowercase works here. The name of the layer is `Flight destination`, but here I can refer to the generic concept.

1. In the **Layers** panel, select **Flight destination**.
1. Select **Filters**.
1. Select **Add filter**.
1. In **Edit filter**, select **DestCountry** in **Field**.
1. In **Operator**, select **is**.
1. In **Value**, select **US**.
1. Select the **Save** button.
1. Select the **Update** button.

For large datasets, you may want to avoid loading data for the whole map. To load data only for the part of the map that is currently visible, select the **Only request data around map extent** checkbox.
{: .tip}

## Using tooltips to visualize additional data

> Document layers show geopoint and geoshape document fields as locations on the map. To add more information to the locations, you can use tooltips. For example, you may want to to show flight delay, destination weather, and destination country in the Flight destination layer. Perform the following steps to configure tooltips to show additional data:

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to bold the name of the layer so that it's clear that it's not just a capitalization error? If yes, apply globally. Also, it looks like either "data" or "information" should follow "country".

1. In the **Layers** panel, select **Flight destination**.
1. Select **Tooltips**. 
1. Select the **Show tooltips** checkbox.

> 1. In the **Tooltip fields** dropdown, select the fields that you'd like to display. In this example, select `FlightDelay`, `DestWeather`, and `DestCountry`.

Reviewer 4: Change "dropdown" to "dropdown list" (per [TERMS.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/TERMS.md))

1. Select the **Update** button.

> To view tooltips, hover over the geographical point you're interested in. One tooltip can display many data points. For example, in the Flight destination layer there are multiple flights for a single destination city. To paginate over the flights, select the city you're interested in and use the arrows in the tooltip:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To view tooltips, hover over the geographical point you're interested in. One tooltip can display many data points. For example, in the Flight destination layer there are multiple flights for a single destination city. To paginate over the flights, select the city you're interested in and use the arrows in the tooltip.
```

Reviewer 3: We shouldn't introduce images with a colon, but best practice is to refer to the image in the text. Something like "as shown in the following image" is fine. Apply globally.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/tooltip.png" alt="Flight destination tooltip" width="450">

> If a point on the map contains data from multiple layers, one tooltip can display data from multiple layers. To choose a particular layer you're interested in, select the layer name in the tooltip layer selection panel. To see all layers, select **All layers**:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a point on the map contains data from multiple layers, one tooltip can display data from multiple layers. To choose a particular layer you're interested in, select the layer name in the tooltip layer selection panel. To see all layers, select **All layers**.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/layer-selection-panel.png" alt="Tooltip with a layer selection panel" width="450">

## Reordering, hiding, and deleting layers

The **Layers** panel lets you reorder, hide, and delete layers:

> - Layers on a map are stacked on top of each other. To reorder layers, use the handle bar (two horizontal lines) icon next to the layer name to drag the layer to the desired position. 

Reviewer 3: "handlebar" would normally be one word.

- If you'd like to hide a layer, select the show/hide (eye) icon next to the layer name. Toggle the show/hide icon to show the layer again.

- To delete a layer, select the delete (trash can) icon next to the layer name.

## Refreshing data for a real-time dataset

> If you want to visualize a real-time dataset, after adding layers to the map use the following steps to set the refresh interval:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to visualize a real-time dataset, after adding layers to the map, perform the following steps to set the refresh interval:
```

1. Select the calendar icon in the upper-right corner.
1. Under **Refresh every**, select or enter the refresh interval (for example, 1 second).
1. Select the **Start** button.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/maps/refresh.png" alt="Refreshing a map" width="450">

## Saving a map

> To save a map with all layers that you set up, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 3: Either "all the layers" or "every layer".

> 1. Select the **Save** button in the upper-right corner. This brings up the **Save map** dialog.

Reviewer 3: Let's not use the phrasal verb "brings up". How about something like "The **Save map** dialog appears."?

Author: Reworded.

> 1. In the **Title** textbox, enter the map name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **Title** text box, enter the map name.
```

> 1. (Optional) In the **Description** textbox, enter map description.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) In the **Description** text box, enter the map description.
```
